# ðŸ’¥ Top 4 VS Code extensions every developer should use

## What is VS Code?

Visual Studio Code is a text editor which is open source i.e., free to use, and
it is made by Microsoft. VS Codeâ€™s simplicity and easy to use features makes
itself favourite choice for the developers. It has a feature through which you
can install the extensions according to your needs. Therefore, these extensions
are also open source and are made by the developers for the community. Here are
some of the extensions which are going to increase your productivity as a
developer:

## 1. Live Server

This is an extension which makes a local server enabling the user to see all the
characteristics of the app. It works perfectly for both dynamic and static web
pages. We can open the live server by right-clicking on the mouse while VS Code
is running behind and then selecting the Open with Live Server option.

## 2. Prettier

Prettier is a code formatting extension therefore it helps you to clean and
format the code automatically. It does the work every time whenever someone saves
the work in VS code and therefore reduces the time of formatting. It is very
useful whenever a team is working on some project as it leads to better and
clear understanding of the code.

## 3. JavaScript Code Snippets

As the name suggests this extension gives you many JavaScript code snippets thus
reducing time to set up the code. It provides different types of ES6 Snippets
including arrays, DOM manipulation, etc.

## 4. Bracket Pair Colorizer

This is one of the personal favourite extensions of mine. It includes simple
functioning i.e, it matches starting and ending brackets in VS Code which
eventually helps you to resolve the errors faster.

I think these much are extensions are enough for you to explore after this blog.
I hope I am helping the community through this blog.

## About the Author

Pulkit Govrani is an aspiring
[Web Developer](https://www.upwork.com/freelancers/~01701403d8b0e94e03) who
loves to share his knowledge through various blogs and tutorials. He has solved
lots of programming problems which has given him enormous amount of learning.
